

​     Which view of intuitions is the correct one? Are intuitions different from and independent of thinking or not? Perhaps, for now, the most prudent answer is that sometimes they are independent and sometimes they are not; we can’t be sure when they are, and therefore it is imprudent to
rely on them.

Basic Activities in Critical Thinking
The basic activities in critical thinking are investigation, interpretation,and judgment, in that order. The following chart summarizes each activity
in relation to the other two.

Investigation: Finding evidence—that is,data that will answer key questions about the issue---The evidence must be both relevant and sufficient.

Interpretation-Deciding what the evidence means---The interpretation must be more reasonable than competing interpretations.



Judgment---Reaching a conclusion about the issue---The conclusion must meet the test of logic. 

As we noted previously, irresponsible thinkers first choose their conclusions and then seek out evidence to justify their choices. They fail to
realize that the only conclusion worth drawing is one based on a thorough understanding of the problem or issue and its possible solutions or
resolutions. Is it acceptable to speculate, guess, and form hunches and hypotheses? Absolutely. Such activities provide a helpful starting point for
the thinking process. (Besides, we couldn’t avoid doing so even if we tried.) The crucial thing is not to let hunches and hypotheses manipulate
our thinking and dictate our conclusion in advance.